# Digital-Media-Fall-2022
Rose Patrick Digital Media

Welcome to my repository and my audacity space. For this project I was motivated through my experience with yoga and the practice of meditation. As everyone knows, like gets extremely crazy and stressful very easily. I have found this to be even more true in college. My roommates and I often discuss what sounds we use to help us fall asleep at night, or destress in the middle of the day.  My inspiration for this project was to create my own version of a mindfulness audio.  The target audience was for anyone who is hoping to unwind or destress, and release their tension. 

As a consumer of meditation media, I find the most beneficial pieces to include speaking and reaffirming words. That is why I included my own voice as I read through a script of calming affirmations. I know that silence or white noise my be preferred for some people, but for me I wished to include a mixture of both calming noises and reassuring thoughts. 

Another reason why I chose to have speaking audio in this piece is because I wanted to ensure that the listener was engaged. Sometimes, I often find my attention slipping away if the sounds are too calming, and I wanted to ensure that listeners were paying attention.  Meditation and mindfulness requires work and practice, and I hope this is a piece which invites people in to listen and participate in the practice of mediation, even if this is their first time. 

From a technical standpoint, I have really enjoyed getting to use Audacity for this project. This is my first time ever working with audio clips in this way, and it challenged me to familiarize myself with an entire field which I had never known before.  After initially figuring out my plan and goal for the project, I first went to Free Sounds and started looking for which audios I found would be peaceful and calming for my Soundscape.  While I found many great pieced on here, I was met with an unforeseen difficulty of ensuring that all of my sounds would flow well together coherently. While birds chirping, waves crashing, and a drum beating may all be calming sounds, I quickly found out that they aren’t necessarily calming when you hear them all at once. Therefore, my next step was to pick a few key sounds which I really felt passionately about and thought could work well together if I edited them correctly. 

I chose to have one unified imported sound as my background piece which would provide stability and facility to the listener.  I had this piece be at a very low volume, so that the listeners might even become desensitized to it without even noticing it. I then chose to import more noticeable sounds such as the chimes. My intent with these additions was to yet again remind the listeners that this is a purposeful mediation. I hoped that the chimes may transport them from physically being in a classroom, to mentally being in a restful yoga studio. 
With the importing of pieces from the internet and of my own voice, one of my main goals was to create a piece which had a calming flow with non abrupt transitions. While there is a time and place for sharp transitions, that was not my goal for this project, so I made sure to include fade in and fade out effects on almost ever piece. 

This project was unlike anything I had ever done before, but I felt comfortable tackling this assignment because of my familiarity with meditation and passion for the end product. 
